My experiment for my masters thesis consists of 3 sections: pre-testing, Ideal Observer testing, and finally the experiment that the participants will do. 

I will be using MATLAB for all 3 sections.

For my pre-testing, I will be using the cambridge face memory test (CFMT) to test for the other-race effect. I will be using 2 versions of the CFMT (white and east asian versions) 
and will be testing them on both white and east asian participants. This part of the experiment will look something like this: 

Run CFMT-Asian 

Accuracy = X

Run CFMT-White 

Accuracy = Y

For White participants: 

If Y>=X 
disp('Eligible!') 
else 
disp('Not eligible')
end

For Asian participants: 

If X>=Y
disp('Eligible!') 
else 
disp('Not eligible')
end

After collecting enough eligible participants, I now will need to test my stimuli on an "ideal observer". My experiment will be a task whereby the participants will see pairs of faces 
(either white vs. white, white vs. asian, or asian vs. asian) and they will be asked to rate the similariy of the faces on a scale from 1-7. What an ideal observer does is it gives me 
the objective differences between each presented face using pixel-wise comparison. If the results of the ideal observer are accurate enough (usually aim for atleat 90% accuracy), then 
my stimuli quality is good enough for participant testing. 

Run ideal observer 

Establish paramters (dimensions, permutations, minimum number of pixels to include as a signficiant dimension)
load stimuli 
find the largest common black background among the images, and remove it before running ideal observer.
Reconstruct ideal observer results. 
Obtain accuracies from ideal observer. 

Once my stimuli is ready to go, I can code and run my experiment on participants. My study will take the behavioral results obtained from participants and attempt to reconstruct the 
face stimuli of white and asian faces from white and asian participants, to further establish the neural pipeline of the other race effect and establish a framework for stimuli reconstruction and race.

Run ORE-reconstruction study.
load stimuli.
Display stimuli 2 at a time with a 7 point scale (not sure how to do that yet, will be using psychtoolbox). 
Save data.

Collect data and analyze it in a similar fashion to the idea observer.





